---
layout: post
title: An early overview of ICLR2018 (part 2)
date: 2017-12-05 00:00:00
description: An early overview of ICLR2018 (OpenReview). Part 2.
comments: true
categories:
- blog
permalink: iclr2018-stats-2/
---

<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="https://cdn.datatables.net/1.10.16/css/jquery.dataTables.min.css">
<script
src="https://code.jquery.com/jquery-3.2.1.min.js"
integrity="sha256-hwg4gsxgFZhOsEEamdOYGBf13FyQuiTwlAQgxVSNgt4="
crossorigin="anonymous"></script>
<script src="https://cdn.datatables.net/1.10.16/js/jquery.dataTables.min.js"></script>
<script>
    $(document).ready(function() {
        $.getJSON('{{ "/assets/js/iclr2018/iclr2018.json" | absolute_url }}', function (table_data) {
            $('#iclr2018').DataTable({
                data: table_data,
                columns: [
                    {title: "Title", className: "dt-body-nowrap"},
                    {title: "Min score", className: "dt-center"},
                    {title: "Max Score", className: "dt-center"},
                    {title: "Mean Score", className: "dt-center"},
                    {title: "#MSGs", className: "dt-center"},
                    {title: "Last update", className: "dt-center"},
                    {title: "Decision", className: "dt-center"},
                ],
                "order": [[5, "desc"]]
            });
        });
    });
</script>

The rebuttal period has ended and final decisions will be notified by January
29th. In this post, differently from [part one](https://prlz77.github.io/iclr2018-stats),
I will provide updated information about the decision process. For those who
just want the data right now, here is **the browsable table** with all the 
submissions under review:

<table id="iclr2018" class="compact stripe order-column hover responsive" width="100%" cellspacing="0"></table>
<br>
I left it ordered by date, and I will update the data on a daily basis so that 
you can check the latest updates. The final decisions will also
be provided. For those who want to play with the data on their own, 
[here it is]({{ "/assets/js/iclr2018/iclr2018.json" }}) ;). 
Please note that paper titles are already placed as stripped
links to prevent your device from doing too much work with javascript (it might
be already busy mining cryptocurrencies..).

I would also like to show you some statistics about the review-rebuttal process.
First, let's take a quick look back to the reviews:

<figure>
    <embed type="image/svg+xml" src='{{ "/assets/images/iclr2018/review_dates.svg" | absolute_url }}' />
</figure>
<br>
The red line shows the daily number of reviewed submissions, and the blue line shows the
accumulated amount. Please note that the deadline was the 27th of November, with
~70% of the papers reviewed. As it can be seen, the 100% is never reached. I found
the cause is [Causal Generative Neural Networks](https://openreview.net/forum?id=ry5wc1bCW),
which was dismissed due to the Dual Submission Policy. 

The results presented in the review dates figure are somehow expected, namely a
peak of reviews on the deadline. How about the behavior of the reviewers during
the review period?

<figure>
    <embed type="image/svg+xml" src='{{ "/assets/images/iclr2018/review_dates_scores.svg" | absolute_url }}' />
</figure>
<br>
As it can be seen, the plot shows the score histograms during the review period. 
Each column represents a day, and scores are divided in three groups (colors):
red (scores 0-3), blue (scores 4-6), and green (scores 7-10). It is interesting
to see how extreme scores are more frequent during the first days (especially for
the red group), decreasing until disappearing. It might mean that reviewers are
fast to spot clear accept/reject papers, while they take more time to decide on
borderline papers.

The rebuttal period finished the 5th of January. Here is the data:

<figure>
    <embed type="image/svg+xml" src='{{ "/assets/images/iclr2018/rebuttal_dates.svg" | absolute_url }}' />
</figure>
<br>
In this case, a 86% of the reviews are answered by the time of the deadline,  see that nice peak :)

The number of withdrawals has also increased during January, see the following figure:

<figure>
    <embed type="image/svg+xml" src='{{ "/assets/images/iclr2018/withdraw_dates.svg" | absolute_url }}' />
</figure>
<br>
The median score of the withdrawn papers is **4**. Browsing in OpenReview, there
can be seen some *clear rejections* due to fatal flaws discovered by the reviewers
and admitted by the authors. This highlights the importance of reviewing for
good research.

I hope you enjoyed the ICLR overview posts, and good luck with the final decisions!!

# Acknowledgements
Thanks to [@pepgonfaus](https://twitter.com/pepgonfaus) for reviewing and encouraging 
me to write this series of posts.

[Go to part 1](https://prlz77.github.io/iclr2018-stats/)


